okay they outside swivels the man's part
guys we're going to start this step
facing towards the center of the room
and we're going to get back into our
closed position
we're going to take a forward step with
the left foot yep take a step to the
side and slightly back with the right
and then we're going to step back when
we call in contra body position and then
we step back with the left foot now as
we step back we're going to turn it
slightly towards the right to lead the
lady to do a swivel and we'll
demonstrate this better when we're
together so then I step forward make her
face me and then I'm going to repeat the
same thing forward sigh in step back
lead the lady to do a swivel go back
turn her and do the tango close I'm
starting this angle we're gonna have
quick-quick slow-slow again quick-quick
slow-slow and the tango close one more
time quick quick slow slow quick quick
slow slow and a tango applause ladies
the lady's part of the outside swivels
since the tango moves around the room
along the line of dance there are
certain figures that are done in certain
directions of the room and the outside
swivels are very useful figure when you
need to turn around so the man generally
starts this when he's facing the center
he'll lead the lady into at this point
all of our figures have started out with
slow slow this is the first figure we've
had that starts out with the words quick
as he does is the first two foot
positions are sort of like a rock step
for the lady
the lady he doesn't get my
wait on my right foot he leaves me on
back and I my heel doesn't go down
because before it can go down
he's led me to rock slightly to the side
back side slightly to the side now he
leads me to step forward underneath his
right arm and I do a swivel step right
swivel left swivel and it's nice to
collect your feet in these swivels
there's a lot of different styling that
you can have you can Ronde you can point
there's a lot of different things but
it's very important first to practice it
collecting your feet so that you really
have good balance and you're on your own
axis so as he leads me to step forward
with my right foot to swivel under his
right foot I step right collect my left
foot behind the heel for good balance
and checking my own axes left now he
leads me into the tango pool so again he
usually repeats two of those outside
swivels it will be quick quick swivel
swivel he repeats the figure quick quick
swivel swivel and tango pull again now
we're back along our line of dance
Emilio let's demonstrate this together
today outside swivels again we're going
to start facing towards the center of
the room for the guys we're getting
dance position and we're going to start
with a quick quick we step back and lead
the lady to do a swivel we repeat
quick-quick slow-slow and tango close
we'll do it this angle I'm going to show
you something that we're gonna do when
we step quick quick now here's we step
back we had to do a little bit of a
contour body action meaning that thought
when it goes back it's gonna be in so we
can step and face towards our partner so
that partner is in front of us and it
makes it easy for us to do the swivel
action okay so I'm facing more towards
her and doing them some of the problems
that tends to happen on this is the guy
when it goes turns the hip away from the
lady and
this hand is really stopping her and
it's kind of hard to lead that so when
you step back turn almost like a you
want to keep your belly button towards
her and the swivel action happens more
in front of you it's a quick quick slow
so quick quick slow slow quick quick
slow slow
kinda tango close okay I'll demonstrate
it to music